hi this is Sarah grace SG training zone
I'm here today at beyond fitness and
health and I wanted to go over what we
call wall squats now wall squats are
great exercise to kind of help break
maybe the bad habits you have when you
squat for instance a lot of people have
a hard time getting their hips back in a
squat and they immediately go forward
into their knees this will kind of help
correct some of those bad habits that
you have and help you with just overall
squat mechanics so what I'm going to do
is start on a wall as you can see you
can do this on a mirror or just an empty
wall like this so what you want to do is
align your toes up on the baseboard I'm
just over shoulder width apart pretty
much and my toes are slightly turned out
now I'm going to place my hands on the
wall and look up towards the ceiling and
the first thing you want to make sure
you do is push your hips back okay that
should be the first kind of motion in a
squat so you want to push your hips back
and begin to go down the wall once you
get to where you can go you're going to
pause and hold it and then come back up
now as you can see or hopefully you guys
can see but my knees are not touching
the wall so that's the goal typically
when you do this in the beginning the
first thing you do is this and then try
to go down it's actually harder than it
looks and it kind of gives you the
feeling with you maybe you're going to
fall back so take it slowly but like I
said you want to make sure the first
thing is push your hips back your butt
back go down to where you can pause
there's space here because my knees
aren't touching and then come back up so
I would say to do about 10 to 12 reps of
those
and then you can go through three times
maybe even three sets of those until you
start to get that down and you're
comfortable with it that really will
help you so much with your overall squat
mechanics like I said earlier it's
something that I do with all of my
clients in the beginning and I know a
lot of people really want to squat and
be able to do that but without the
proper form you risk injury and you're
not able to load the squat the way that
you want to so hopefully something like
this will help you out with that
um so Sarah grace SG training zone
Oh also I wanted to tell you guys my
sneakers today that I'm wearing
hopefully you can see them they're
Reebok and a lot of people are always
asking me about my sneaker so that's
kind of my thing
like where did you get them who makes
them but these are the UM the new Zig
tags from Reebok all right
SG training zone get in the zone my zone
you